competitions can be nerve-racking the
more we live up to the day on which we
are supposed to shine
the more anxiety builds up what if i
perform badly
what if something goes wrong an olympic
swimmer
trains thousands of hours just to get
that medal
a musician practices for days on end
just to perform well
those few times on stage and a student
practices a speech in front of the
mirror
multiple times just for that moment in
front of the audience
when all their efforts come down to one
defining moment
how can they not succumb to the pressure
of the need
to succeed this video expands on a
taoist
story that's concerned with this
pressure and the fear that it
generates is it because we are trying
too hard
if so how can we win without trying
taoist sage zhuangzi was a keen observer
of nature
including human nature he figured out
that
the burden of the future often
negatively affects our performances in
the present
moment to illustrate this he tells us a
simile about an archer
when you're an archer and you shoot
simply for fun
you shoot with skill but if you shoot
for a small prize
you begin to worry about your aim and if
you're competing for gold
you'll become a nervous wreck shuangzhou
tells us
that our skills thus the competency of
doing a certain task
are the same in all three situations but
somehow we let different circumstances
influence our skills
in different ways let's analyze this
story to show how this works
when we play for fun winning or losing
doesn't matter
this means that we aren't burdened by
possible consequences
when we shoot some balls simply to have
a good time missing the goal
doesn't mean much as we're not competing
and practicing a speech
in front of the mirror by ourselves does
not come with a risk
of damaging our reputation because
there's no audience
when there's nothing on the line there's
nothing to be anxious about
meaning that there's no fear that
sabotages our performance
when burdens like trying to win in a
conceptual future
or trying to prevent repeating a
horrible failure from the past
are absent we are more immersed in the
act itself
that's why in many cases the best
speeches are given in front of the
mirror the best
soccer goals are made on the practice
field and the best musical performances
are done outside the studio and far away
from the stage
but suddenly there are consequences tied
to your performance
by performing well you might be able to
obtain a medal
or even a championship trophy and within
the game of human civilization these
aren't just meaningless objects these
prizes represent symbols of success
that comes with an increase in
reputation and in some cases
an opportunity to monetize our success
winning could lead to becoming rich and
famous
losing however could result in falling
out of people's favor
shame guilt the end of a career and
losing the chance of gaining money
so there's a lot at stake and because of
this a desire for winning arises
along with an aversion to losing until
we conclude
losing is no option feeling the
necessity to win has a positive side
it motivates us to practice a lot and
make sacrifices
thus necessity is a breeding ground for
success
however necessity can also become a
burden that
sabotages our performance in the case of
the archer the prospect of
winning and losing made him a nervous
wreck with the possibility of
winning gold also came the possibility
of not having it
or having blown the chance of winning it
his
thoughts about a potential loss produce
fear
and thus ruins his chances when we're
too focused on winning and losing then
our worries over shadow
are skill our skill is still the same
but the mind creates a fog of thoughts
that prevent our skill from unfolding in
such
situations we find ourselves not being
in the zone
we might even start to believe that
we've lost our mojo
but this isn't the case it's our mind
sabotaging itself
when our thoughts about the past and
future fall away our skills can manifest
optimally
to the point that we become one with the
act
a great example of this is a dog
catching a ball
when the dog sees you throwing the ball
it jumps towards it
with great precision catches it without
even thinking about landing
as it's focused purely on catching the
ball it doesn't act because of the prize
it
acts for the sake of acting catching a
ball
is part of the dog's nature however
we are not dogs we're humans and our
nature is different
we can plan for the future in detail and
our goals are generally much more
sophisticated
we're often expected to perform our best
with a future goal in mind
but even then we can still influence
what we focus on
do we let the possibility of winning a
gold medal
dominate our thoughts or do we let this
desire
fade into the background and focus on
what we can do
at this very moment the less we care
about the results
the less our minds will be troubled by
them this applies very much to
creative work as well like making videos
like these
when creating just for fun it's an easy
process
but when we're obsessed with getting
views outperforming other channels
and judging our creations as failures
and successes
will feel more pressure the need for
success
the desire for fame the prospect of
getting paid
could overshadow the overall performance
of a content creator
thus when there's something on the line
in some cases
one's livelihood then what once was a
joyful pastime
could become a stressful and
anxiety-provoking chore
worrying about the results obstructs our
ability to focus on the task at hand
this is detrimental as our best
performances are the ones that we are
immersed in
this immersion is known as the flow
state in this state
a swimmer forgets the water a soccer
player becomes the field
and the painter the movement of our
brush within that moment
they don't try to win anything they
don't act for the sake of obtaining a
prize
they have switched off their
expectations and desires
and reduced their very being to the act
and that's the key
just do it thank you for watching
[Music]
you